                               AN ORSON LIBRARY

                                 James B. Moen
                               January 20, 2014

The Orson source files in this  directory implement an Orson library. It is not
intended to be  a standard library, but rather a  collection of methods (mostly
forms) that may  be helpful or interesting. Some library  files were written to
help find bugs in the Orson compiler. Others were written as parts of programs,
then moved to the library if it was felt they might be of general use.

Most  of the  Orson library  is  written in  Orson, although  some files  (like
file.os) are  simply false beards for functions  from the GNU C  library. A few
files (like width.os) use code written in GNU C.

    action.os     Operations on actions associated with Unix signals.
    array.os      Make arrays with specified elements.
    ascii.os      Operations on ASCII characters.
    assert.os     Report an error if an expression is false.
    bht.os        Bucketed hash tables.
    bitset.os     Finite sets of small integers.
    break.os      Terminate an iterator.
    buffer.os     Fixed length linear queues.
    cdlc.os       Circular doubly linked chains.
    cell.op       Operations on cells.
    chain.os      Visit nodes in a linear linked chain.
    chainsort.os  Sort a linear linked chain of execution objects.
    char.os       Operations on characters.
    command.os    Process Unix command line arguments.
    complex.os    Complex arithmetic.
    convert.os    Convert a string to an integer or a real.
    count.os      Counting loops with breakers.
    cxr.op        Compositions of cars and cdrs.
    decode.os     Decode a string to a series of characters.
    default.os    Default values of given types.
    delimit.os    Visit delimited substrings of a string.
    directory.os  Operations on Unix directories.
    dotref.os     Dereference pointers to tuples using dots.
    dump.os       Dynamic memory allocation with garbage collection.
    dynamic.os    Dynamic memory allocation with explicit release.
    empty.os      An empty program.
    encode.os     Encode a character as a string.
    environ.op    Communicate with the operating system.
    exchange.os   Suzuki generalized variable exchanges.
    fail.os       Terminate a program with an error message.
    file.os       Input and output on file streams.
    flq.os        Fixed length queues.
    fls.os        Fixed length stacks.
    formif.os     Simulate transformation-time ifs using forms.
    headtail.os   Traverse arrays using pointers.
    krig.os       Knuth’s random int generator.
    library.os    Get a string of library directory paths.
    list.os       Operations on lists.
    lslc.os       Linear singly linked chains.
    making.os     Allocate an object from the heap and initialize it.
    match.os      Test if a string is a member of a list of strings.
    math.os       Mathematical constants and functions.
    methcast.os   Cast forms to procedures and vice versa.
    multi.os      Multi-dimensional arrays.
    path.os       Operations on Unix pathnames.
    plain.os      Operations on Orson plain names.
    pmrig.os      Park-Miller Random int Generator.
    prelude.op    A standard prelude for Orson (version Burbot).
    prime.os      Test if an integer constant is prime.
    primes.os     Generate a series of prime ints.
    quicksort.os  Quicksort the elements of an array.
    roman.os      Convert small positive ints to Roman numerals.
    seed.os       Initialize a random number generator.
    select.os     Simulate a case clause whose labels are strings.
    sequence.op   Iterators that transform to sequences.
    shell.os      Execute Unix shell commands.
    signal.os     Operations on Unix signals and sets of signals.
    skolem.os     Make Skolem types for debugging Orson.
    string.op     Operations on strings.
    subsup.os     Write integers using subscript and superscript digits.
    text.os       Read characters and lines from a text file.
    throw.os      Throw exceptions in response to Unix signals.
    time.os       Operations on dates and times.
    twirl.os      Write a twirling baton during a loop.
    ubst.os       Unbalanced binary search trees.
    uncaught.os   Catch otherwise uncaught exceptions.
    vlq.os        Variable length queues.
    vls.os        Variable length stacks.
    width.os      Determine columns to write simple objects.
    withify.os    Transform a list of terms into a with clause.

Some  library files  use  GNU C  types that  are  created by  calling the  form
c's. When c's creates a GNU C type,  it must be given the alignment and size of
that type, since  Orson cannot determine these for  itself. Unfortunately, type
alignments and sizes  can vary from one system to another,  and those used here
may not  be correct for  your system. Orson  is distributed with a  program gas
that can  show the alignment  and size of  any named GNU  C type. If  there are
problems, you should use it to check type alignments and sizes.

The Orson library also contains a few  files that do not define methods for use
in other programs. Some (like makecxr.os and ranger.os) automatically construct
source files for the library.

    C/            A directory that contains GNU C code. Boring.
    README        What you're reading now.
    Readme.by     Bracy source for Readme.html.
    Readme.html   Long HTML version of README.
    makecxr.os    Generate the Orson library file cxr.op.
    ranger.os     Make arrays that clone GNU C’s wcwidth function.

The Orson  library is available  for free, under  the terms of the  GNU General
Public License  version 3,  so it may  be used  by free Orson  programs. People
bothered by  this are invited  to make their  Orson programs free, or  to write
their own libraries.
