                                 APPLICATIONS

                                 James B. Moen
                               January 23, 2014

0. Overview.

This directory  contains source  files for some  application programs.  All are
available  under the  terms of  the GNU  General Public  License  (GPL) version
3.  Some  of these  files  use  special  characters. Without  proper  rendering
support, you may see question marks,  boxes, or other symbols in place of these
characters.

1. Contents.

The  files in this  directory are  in three  groups. Files  in the  first group
contain Orson  sources for utility  programs that can  be installed and  run as
Unix shell commands.

    gas.os        Show the alignment and size of a GNU C type.
    hb.os         Write simple statistics about source files.
    jc.os         Justify comments with a given prefix.
    nsurt.os      Copy a file, inserting the contents of other files.
    olf.os        Write the titles of Orson library files.
    prescript.os  Preprocess Unicode characters for GNU Enscript.
    series.os     Write a finite series of integers.
    tabu.os       Write a series of names as a rectangular table.
    urus.os       Obsolete cross reference generator for Orson sources.

The program GNU Enscript converts text files to PostScript for printing, but it
currently supports only seven- and eight-bit character sets, like ASCII and ISO
Latin-1. Prescript  is a  preprocessor that lets  Enscript print some  (but not
all) of the Unicode characters that can appear in Orson sources.

The current  Orson cross reference generator  for Orson source  files is called
Ox. The  program Urus  is an obsolete  earlier version  of Ox. Unlike  Ox, Urus
cross-references  only plain, quoted,  reserved, and  secret names.  It doesn’t
treat   operator    symbols   as   quoted    names   that   should    also   be
cross-referenced.  Urus is  included here  only  as an  example of  how to  use
predefined data structures from the Orson library. (A urus is an extinct bovine
mammal, Bos taurus  primigenius, of Northern Africa, Europe,  and Western Asia,
believed to be the ancestor of domestic cattle.)

Files  in   the  second  group  contain   Orson  sources  that   are  tests  or
demonstrations.  Some test  data  structures  that are  provided  by the  Orson
library.

    chainsaw.os   Sort a linked chain of tuples.
    hello.os      Write Hello, world!
    parser.os     Recursive descent parser for Orson.
    partition.os  Write the partitions of a set.
    permute.os    Write the permutations of an array.
    sieve.os      The Sieve of Eratosthenes.
    tak.os        Takeuchi function as a form.

The  program  Parser might  be  used  as a  starting  point  for programs  like
cross-referencers or pretty-printers that must parse Orson source programs. For
example, the program Ox was written by modifying Parser.

Files in the third group contain documentation, and some other things. Most are
Unix manual pages for the Orson utility programs.

    README        What you're reading now.
    Readme.by     Bracy source for Readme.html.
    Readme.html   Long HTML version of README.
    dotEmacs      Customization file for GNU Emacs.
    gas.1         Manual page for Gas.
    hb.1          Manual page for HB.
    jc.1          Manual page for JC.
    prescript.1   Manual page for Prescript.
    series.1      Manual page for Series.
    tabu.1        Manual page for Tabu.
    urus.1        Manual page for Urus.

As mentioned before,  Orson source programs can use  some Unicode characters as
operators. The file  dotEmacs makes it allegedly easy  to enter such characters
from a standard US keyboard, using the GNU Emacs text editor.
